lore (version 3, now with geography)

disclaimer: any resembalance, real or imagined,
to real life political entities is purely coincidental.
(or however the heck you're supposed to say that)

northeren supercontinent:
	eastern subcontinent:
		inhabited primarily by elves; dwarfs run large
		subterrainian mining operations, but not as large as on
		the southern continent. drow live further below
		and frequently interrupt said mining operations.
		broken planer gate under southen tip (☾)
		a mountain range extends most of the way south from the
		polar extent of the continent. ruins of times past
		can be found readily should one venture away from
		the well-traveled roads. opulant cities from times of myth
		are still inhabited.

		the elves live in 3 nations which use delagates to
		rule by the will of the people. delagates derive
		authority from the population of a given area,
		who must be consulted before the delagate has any
		power to act. bypassing this consent has been
		the first step of several ill-fated civil wars sparked
		by runaway political ambition.

	polar subcontinent:
		mixture of volcanic and icecapped mountains, occasionally
		broken by taiga forests or barren glacial plains
		broken planer gates (◬)
		sirens live in small villages, around thermals,
		in forests, or under ice
		surface otherwise cold and lifeless

		the sirens were once the dominant power over the entire
		continent. they ruled it under a single nation in the same
		method now used by the elves, after defeating an older,
		draconic fudel empire in a centuries long civil war.
		however, certain orkish barons remained loyal to their
		absent kings, and within decades sowed seeds of dissent
		amoungst the other races. fueled by greed, many rebelled,
		and the avians retreated to the mountains. the elves
		re-established diplomatic relations with the sirens shortly
		after exiling the parties responsible for the plot.

		during times of crisis, representitives have asked the
		sirens for help, but the sirens cannot be swayed to come
		down from the mountains in great number. the sirens are
		slow to trust others after the orkish plot, still
		very recent by their timescale; but have been even slower
		to trust themselves. no permenant central authority has
		existed since the final disbanding of the pan-continental
		house of delagates shortly after their retreat.

		truly massive fortresses can be found around
		the polar volcanic area; scars of forgotten battles
		are etched upon the walls. carved out of the mountains
		themselves, these fortifications have stood since time
		immemorable; they have never fallen to a GROUND attack.
		some are still garrisoned in the summer, to stand guard
		against the human's endless wars. like all siren armies,
		they still fly the old standards from ages past on the
		flagposts;
		for want of new ones that hold fewer painful memories.

	western subcontinent:
		densely populated by humans
		orks underground
		planer gate under southernmost tip (△)

		after the orks pushed the avians out of their fertile
		temperate lands, they had no means to stop the unrest they
		had sown to do so, and were soon ironically forced by
		humans to move underground. the humans then proceeded to
		turn on eachother, and still war with eachother constantly.
		while some human kingdoms have stood for centuries, others
		rise and fall in months, reflecting their short lifespan.
		virtually nothing remains of the ancient lands, covered
		by deep scars of constant war.

southern continent:
	polar:
		homeland of the dwarfs, massive underground cities
		broken planer gate in capital (⍫)
		utterly inhospitibal above ground, cold and dead

		the dwarfs take pride in never being conquored by any
		forign powers (perhaps too much), and their underground
		city has layer upon layer of fortification. their earliest
		written history is scrawled upon these walls, and the bones
		of slain dragons lie in the ice above.

	eastern thaw:
		city of gnomes
		anachrostic advanced tech
		broken planer gate (☼)

		gnomish technology is used all throughout the world, and
		has produced great advances in mining, metalurgy, and
		communications that previously required dangerous
		high-level magic.
		the difference between gnomes and dwarfs is a matter of
		ongoing debate, which elves wholly consider "silly"

little ocean:
	merfolk, sea elves, coral, happy sunny islands
	nearly complete planer gate (▽), on seafloor

big ocean:
	shipwreaks, sea monsters, sharp jagged rocks, storms
	complete planer gate at bottom of undersea trench
	rarely used for long-distance navigation; largely unexplored

various types of azimuthal projections are used to map each of the
northeran supercontinent's subcontinents (polar, oblique*2), the antarctic
continent (polar), and the little ocean (equitorial). the entire northeran
supercontinant is mapped with a transverse pseudocylindrical projection.
the big ocean is being mapped with a normal pseudocylindrical projection.
(the entire planet can be mapped with an isohedral projection, but has not
been in universe. other real projections have high distortion and/or split
through populated areas)
